He pushed his trolley round and stared at the barrier. It looked very solid. He started to walk towards it. People jostled him on their way to platforms nine and ten. Harry walked more quickly. He was going to smash right into that ticket box and then he’d be in trouble – leaning forward on his trolley he broke into a heavy run – the barrier was coming nearer and nearer – he wouldn’t be able to stop – the trolley was out of control – he was a foot away – he closed his eyes ready for the crash – It didn’t come … he kept on running … he opened his eyes. A scarlet steam engine was waiting next to a platform packed with people. A sign overhead said Hogwarts Express, 11 o’clock. Harry looked behind him and saw a wrought-iron archway where the ticket box had been, with the words Platform Nine and Three-Quarters on it. He had done it. Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the chattering crowd, while cats of every colour wound here and there between their legs. Owls hooted to each other in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble and the scraping of heavy trunks. The first few carriages were already packed with students, some hanging out of the window to talk to their families, some fighting over seats. Harry pushed his trolley off down the platform in search of an empty seat. He passed a round-faced boy who was saying, ‘Gran, I’ve lost my toad again.’ ‘Oh, Neville,’ he heard the old woman sigh. A boy with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small crowd. ‘Give us a look, Lee, go on.’ The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms and the people around him shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a long, hairy leg. Harry pressed on through the crowd until he found an empty compartment near the end of the train. He put Hedwig inside first and then started to shove and heave his trunk towards the train door. He tried to lift it up the steps but could hardly raise one end and twice he dropped it painfully on his foot. ‘Want a hand?’ It was one of the red-haired twins he’d followed through the ticket box. ‘Yes, please,’ Harry panted. ‘Oy, Fred! C’mere and help!’ With the twins’ help, Harry’s trunk was at last tucked away in a corner of the compartment. ‘Thanks,’ said Harry, pushing his sweaty hair out of his eyes. ‘What’s that?’ said one of the twins suddenly, pointing at Harry’s lightning scar. ‘Blimey,’ said the other twin. ‘Are you –?’ ‘He is,’ said the first twin. ‘Aren’t you?’ he added to Harry. ‘What?’ said Harry. ‘Harry Potter,’ chorused the twins. ‘Oh, him,’ said Harry. ‘I mean, yes, I am.’ The two boys gawped at him and Harry felt himself going red. Then, to his relief, a voice came floating in through the train’s open door. ‘Fred? George? Are you there?’ ‘Coming, Mum.’ With a last look at Harry, the twins hopped off the train. Harry sat down next to the window where, half-hidden, he could watch the red-haired family on the platform and hear what they were saying. Their mother had just taken out her handkerchief. ‘Ron, you’ve got something on your nose.’ The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way, but she grabbed him and began rubbing the end of his nose. ‘Mum – geroff.’ He wriggled free. ‘Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on his nosie?’ said one of the twins. ‘Shut up,’ said Ron. ‘Where’s Percy?’ said their mother. ‘He’s coming now.’ The oldest boy came striding into sight. He had already changed into his billowing black Hogwarts robes and Harry noticed a shiny red and gold badge on his chest with the letter P on it. ‘Can’t stay long, Mother,’ he said. ‘I’m up front, the Prefects have got two compartments to themselves –’ ‘Oh, are you a Prefect, Percy?’ said one of the twins, with an air of great surprise. ‘You should have said something, we had no idea.’ ‘Hang on, I think I remember him saying something about it,’ said the other twin. ‘Once –’ ‘Or twice –’ ‘A minute –’ ‘All summer –’ ‘Oh, shut up,’ said Percy the Prefect. ‘How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?’ said one of the twins. ‘Because he’s a Prefect,’ said their mother fondly. ‘All right, dear, well, have a good term – send me an owl when you get there.’ She kissed Percy on the cheek and he left. Then she turned to the twins. ‘Now, you two – this year, you behave yourselves. If I get one more owl telling me you’ve – you’ve blown up a toilet or –’ ‘Blown up a toilet? We’ve never blown up a toilet.’ ‘Great idea though, thanks, Mum.’ ‘It’s not funny. And look after Ron.’ ‘Don’t worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us.’ ‘Shut up,’ said Ron again. He was almost as tall as the twins already and his nose was still pink where his mother had rubbed it. ‘Hey, Mum, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?’ Harry leant back quickly so they couldn’t see him looking. ‘You know that black-haired boy who was near us in the station? Know who he is?’ ‘Who?’ ‘Harry Potter!’ Harry heard the little girl’s voice. ‘Oh, Mum, can I go on the train and see him, Mum, oh please …’ ‘You’ve already seen him, Ginny, and the poor boy isn’t something you goggle at in a zoo. Is he really, Fred? How do you know?’ ‘Asked him. Saw his scar. It’s really there – like lightning.’ ‘Poor dear – no wonder he was alone. I wondered. He was ever so polite when he asked how to get on to the platform.’ ‘Never mind that, do you think he remembers what You-Know-Who looks like?’ Their mother suddenly became very stern. ‘I forbid you to ask him, Fred. No, don’t you dare. As though he needs reminding of that on his first day at school.’ ‘All right, keep your hair on.’ A whistle sounded. ‘Hurry up!’ their mother said, and the three boys clambered on to the train. They leant out of the window for her to kiss them goodbye and their younger sister began to cry. ‘Don’t, Ginny, we’ll send you loads of owls.’ ‘We’ll send you a Hogwarts toilet seat.’ ‘George!’ ‘Only joking, Mum.’ The train began to move. Harry saw the boys’ mother waving and their sister, half laughing, half crying, running to keep up with the train until it gathered too much speed; then she fell back and waved. Harry watched the girl and her mother disappear as the train rounded the corner. Houses flashed past the window. Harry felt a great leap of excitement. He didn’t know what he was going to – but it had to be better than what he was leaving behind. The door of the compartment slid open and the youngest redheaded boy came in.